# ESSS-Project

Universities have many units dedicated to providing various student support services, not related to any particular academic discipline, e.g. UCT has a Careers Service, Student Wellness Service, Residence Support, etc. Faculties also typically have various interventions like study skills seminars, mentorship programmes, etc. Although many students do engage these services, there is always a challenge to ensure that they are utilised optimally by all students who need them. One problem is that students are overwhelmed with information during orientation. Students are also expected to be proactive to seek out the necessary support when they need it. Much of the useful information is generic and found on disparate websites or learning management systems, like Vula, and doesn't reach students timeously. Getting through university requires significant self organisation and self regulation skills, which are difficult to impart to students who really need them but are often overwhelmed. On the flip side, students are typically very engaged in Social Media, often spending significant amounts of unproductive time. These social media apps use various techniques which are customised to individual users based on their profile, usage of the app, etc. There is also a significant body of educational research work looking at non-academic factors which affect student integration, retention and success. The system will be informed by the types of student support services which exist, how systems like social media keep users engaged and the educational research theories around student success, with a strong focus on the needs of under-prepared and first generation students who typically have challenges navigating the university space. The proposed system would include a publishing component, allowing the distribution of useful content e.g. articles or video; a social media component, to create a sense of community, and any other innovative component which would assist in the broader task of student support. So the fundamental question is, is it possible to create a system which is accessible, relevant and engaging to each individual student which offers them the necessary support to allow them to make a success of their university careers.
